there are nine reasons why you typically
can't sell anything to your website
visitors hey everyone i'm neil patel and
today i'm gonna break down when you have
thousands of website visitors but you
can't sell more than a hundred dollars a
month to your audience
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
the first reason is poor keyword
targeting look not targeting your ideal
buyers is useless it doesn't matter how
much traffic you have and i'm going to
give you a prime example of this guess
how many visitors i get on yalebitel.com
a million two million three million
hundred thousand what's your guess it's
roughly eight nine million visitors a
month
but
majority of the audience not even one
percent i'm looking at less than point
one percent of my audience is converting
into customers sure my price points are
high but the bigger reason why a lot of
my traffic is not converting is i went
after the wrong keywords it's not just
about getting traffic it's about intent
so what i want you to do is go to
ubersuggest
type in a keyword related to your space
and then on the left side go to the
keyword ideas report the keyword ideas
report shows you all the keywords within
your industry
and this is giving you a lot a lot of
ideas i want you to look for the
keywords that have high traffic volumes
and a high cpc cpc stands for cost per
click the higher that number typically
means the better that keyword converts
and it's not always about visitor
account but it typically is about higher
cpc the higher the cpc the better the
keyword typically is
and if you do that you're going to find
a lot of the list of keywords that you
could potentially target and if you're
logged in on this report you can also
click a button
that shows you all the keywords that you
can rank for you put in your url and
it'll filter those keywords to give you
the ones that you have the highest
probability of ranking for the second
reason is no sales funnel
look sales is like dating
if you just go down the street you meet
a random person you say hey will you
marry me and you pop out a ring
they're going to probably say no i don't
care if you look like you know a
supermodel
most people are just going to say no why
because they don't really know you but
if you ask someone on a date there's a
higher chance that they say yes and then
if you say hey let's go on a date we
like each other go meet up for coffee
then eventually go on a few more dates
meet their friends eventually meet their
parents eventually move in together fast
forward a few years then you ask them
will you get married the chances are
they'll say yes now i get it
with your online business you don't have
that long to make a sale and you're not
asking for as big of a commitment
compared to marriage
but
if you have a sales funnel you can
actually start converting people better
because you're taking them through the
stages they need to go to in order to
convert them check out a product called
click funnels it helps you create
funnels really quickly and they have
templated funnels depending on what
industry you're in they'll automatically
convert wealth
the third reason no sales process
a ton of money is in sales just look at
the company's sales force they're
massive why are they massive because of
sales most the companies listed on the
stock market whether it's the nasdaq or
new york stock exchange they're massive
because of sales you can't take sales
for granted so build out a sales team
there's a lot of books that can help you
that with sales such as winning by
design and uh or the little red book to
selling i believe it's called check that
one out as well and they'll just help
you get better at sales and that can
help you generate more revenue as well
the fourth reason your product or
service isn't a winner look if you look
at the majority of the large
corporations out there whether it's nike
or microsoft or airbnb
yes they're generating a lot of sales
through seo and pay-per-click and social
media marketing but the majority of
their sales actually don't come from any
of those channels it doesn't come from
tv ads or radio or anything like that it
actually comes from word of mouth but
how do you get that word of mouth
one way is you just be in business long
enough but to be in business long enough
you need to have a good product or
service if you have amazing product or
service that's what's going to create
the growth and the word of mouth
fifth reason mismatch between your
traffic and the product and service that
you're offering
for example
back in the day i used to go after a lot
of keywords related to instagram
marketing because there's so much
traffic related to it so just how to get
more followers or how to make money on
instagram because i'm like hey you know
people who pay me for marketing they all
use instagram so i should educate them
on instagram marketing
but even though that is marketing
there's a mismatch i don't really offer
instagram marketing services at my ad
agency np digital instead we help people
with their seo and we help them with
their paid ads and email marketing
conversions and sure we help them with
instagram but it's not a big portion of
our business it's more so add-on that if
business need helps we'll help include
it in their omnichannel approach but
instagram more from the content creation
side or the ad side but we don't really
focus on hey let's get you more
followers so there's a mismatch there
even though it's marketing related it's
not ideal fit for ideal customers
because people come to us and say i want
to spend a dollar you better make me
more than a dollar at least in the long
run worst case so you need to make sure
there's alignment number six
you don't have enough authority or
credibility yet to endorse your product
or service for example if i'm going out
there and telling everyone hey np
digital we're amazing at getting people
more seo traffic and more paid traffic
and just really skyrocketing rankings
and people like neil have you done this
for anyone else
i have luckily but if i
didn't have those case studies i would
be screwed and i get that you may not
have that
but at the beginning can you at least do
something for your own site or do some
pro bono work and show that you can
provide results to other people
and with my own website neilpatel.com
which is how i got really started early
on i have millions of visitors i'm like
look if i can rank my own website
against other marketers in the most
competitive industry i can rank your
website and that really does help you
got to get that credibility and at the
beginning it takes a while to really
build it up but in the long run you'll
get there
number seven fine-tune your checkout
process
a big thing in checkout process i
learned two big things that really do
help
the first thing is with the checkout
process is number one it's all about
two-step checkouts if you're amazon not
really the more simplistic your checkout
the better but i found that if you ask
your name and email first and then the
rest of the form fields later on you
typically can increase your conversions
by 8 9 10 11 somewhere around there
especially if you're a new brand
the second thing that i found with
checkout is people want those options
for payment it doesn't have to be like
nascar where you have all those logos
and give 20 checkout options but whether
you take credit card or paypal maybe a
few other options the more the better
but don't overdo it just put the main
ones because when someone's sitting on
their couch and they're on their mobile
device they see a tv commercial or they
see something they like on instagram
they want to buy they don't want to get
up and get their wallet eight split test
your product pages and see what's
working best with your audience it's all
about conversion optimization
just because you have a hundred visitors
you may not get one to buy from you or
two or three and if you're not
there in many cases there will be
something wrong especially you're
getting thousands of visitors so what i
recommend doing is using a tool called
crazy egg and with crazy egg once you
create your account and put in your url
you get started for free or at least
with a free trial and with crazy egg
what you'll find is it'll show you a
heat map of where people are clicking
and where they're not and that'll give
you an idea of how people are engaging
on your page as well as showing you
videos of mouse movements and general
patterns of how people interact with
your pages and then what i would do is
use those ideas to come up with a b
tests which you can also do through
crazyegg through their wysiwyg editor so
you don't even need a developer and nine
work on your call to action buttons so
again it's all about your ctas and you
can test that as well within crazy egg
whether that's add to cart add to
checkout uh start your free trial some
of these buns have a huge impact on
sales and it may not be twenty thirty
percent but even if it's a few
conversion points it all really does add
up now if you need help with your
marketing check out my ad agency np
digital
and if you just have any questions just
leave a comment below i'm really here to
help you succeed so don't be shy ask me
any questions you have if you enjoy the
video like it share it tell the people
about it thank you for watching